=head1 NAME

JSON::PS - A JSON parser and serializer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use JSON::PS;
  $json = perl2json_bytes $perl;
  $perl = json_bytes2perl $json;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<JSON::PS> module provides JSON parser and serializer functions.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

Following functions are exported by default, or can be exported by
enumerating them as argument to the C<use> statement:

=over 4

=item $perl = json_bytes2perl $json

Decode the argument as a UTF-8 encoded JSON byte sequence and return
the Perl data structure corresponding to it.  Return C<undef> if
failed.

=item $perl = json_chars2perl $json

Decode the argument as a JSON character sequence and return the Perl
data structure corresponding to it.  Return C<undef> if failed.

=item $json = perl2json_bytes $perl

Encode the argument as a UTF-8 encoded JSON byte sequence and return
the result.

=item $json = perl2json_chars $perl

Encode the argument as a JSON character sequence and return the
result.

=item $json = perl2json_bytes_for_record $perl

Encode the argument as a UTF-8 encoded pretty-printed JSON byte
sequence and return the result.

=item $json = perl2json_chars_for_record $perl

Encode the argument as a pretty-printed JSON character sequence and
return the result.

=back

=head1 ERROR HANDLING

By default, JSON parse errors are C<warn>ed.  This behavior can be
replaced by setting an error handler to the global variable
C<$JSON::PS::OnError>.

The error handler is invoked with a hash reference as the argument.
See
<https://github.com/manakai/data-errors/blob/master/doc/onerror.txt>
for details of values available from the hash reference.

=head1 SPECIFICATION

=over 4

=item JSON

ECMA-404 The JSON Data Interchange Format
<https://www.ecma-international.org/publications/files/ECMA-ST/ECMA-404.pdf>.

=back

=head1 MAPPING BETWEEN JSON AND PERL

This module adopts simplest possible mapping from JSON to Perl and
vice versa.  It is not a goal of the module to provide a complete
mapping between every possible JSON and Perl values.

=head2 JSON to Perl

JSON C<null> is mapped to Perl C<undef>.

JSON C<true> is mapped to Perl C<1>.

JSON C<false> is mapped to Perl C<0>.

JSON numbers are mapped to Perl scalar values with same numeric value.
Numbers can overflow or underflow.

JSON strings are mapped to Perl scalar values with same string value.
If the input JSON data is a Perl character string, the output can
contain characters greater than U+10FFFF.

JSON arrays are mapped to Perl array references.  JSON array items are
used as Perl array items.

JSON objects are mapped to Perl hash references.  JSON names and
values are used as hash keys and values.  Order of them are not
preserved in Perl.  If there are multiple values with same name, the
later value is used as the value in the hash.

This module has no restriction on length of string and number of items
in array or object.

=head2 Perl to JSON

If an object with C<TO_JSON> method is given, the method is invoked
and the result is used.  It is expected to return a non-object scalar
value and not to throw any exception.

Perl hash references are mapped to JSON objects.  Hash keys and values
are used as JSON names and values.  Order of JSON names are not
considered as significant upon serialization.

Perl array references are mapped to JSON arrays.  Perl array items are
used as JSON array items.

A Perl scalar reference referencing a Perl scalar value C<1> (a string
or a number) is mapped to JSON C<true>.

A Perl scalar reference referencing a Perl scalar value C<0> (a string
or a number) is mapped to JSON C<false>.

If the L<Types::Serialiser> module is loaded, any Perl reference value
C<Types::Serialiser::is_true> would return true is mapped to JSON
C<true>.

If the L<Types::Serialiser> module is loaded, any Perl reference value
C<Types::Serialiser::is_false> would return true is mapped to JSON
C<false>.

Any other Perl scalar value is mapped to JSON number or string.  If
the value has numeric value and is not C<inf>, C<-inf>, or C<nan>, it
is mapped to equivalent JSON number.  Otherwise, it is mapped to
equivalent JSON string.  If there is a character greater than
U+10FFFF, the JSON string also contains the character (which is
non-conforming).  If the output is a byte string, however, the
character is converted to U+FFFD when it is converted to bytes.

  For example, the following code generates a JSON array with
  a string and a number:

    print perl2json_bytes [ "" . 12345 , 0 + "10.1" ]; # ["12345",10.1]

It prefers code point escapes to one-character escapes, which is
different from ECMAScript's C<JSON.stringify>.  It escapes more
characters than ECMAScript: C<">, C<\> C<+>, C<< < >>, C0 and C1
control characters, C<DELETE>, U+2028, U+2029, noncharacter code
points, and surrogate code points.

=head1 COMPARISON WITH SIMILAR MODULES

If performance is important for your application, use L<JSON::XS>.  If
you don't like XS, use L<JSON::Tiny>.

If you have to support some non-standard extension to JSON syntax,
write your own parser or serializer.

API of this module is same as L<JSON::Functions::XS>
<https://github.com/wakaba/perl-json-functions-xs>, a function-based
API wrapper for L<JSON::XS>.

=head1 DEPENDENCY

The module requires Perl 5.8 or later.  It also requires L<B>,
L<Carp>, and L<Encode> (all of them are core modules).

Tests require some more modules, but they are not required by the
module itself.

=head1 INSTALL

Just copy the C<lib/JSON/PS.pm> file into an appropriate directory, or
add <https://github.com/wakaba/perl-json-ps> as a Git submodule of the
Git repository of your application.

=head1 DEVELOPMENT

Latest version of the module is available in the Git repository
<https://github.com/wakaba/perl-json-ps>.

You should add the Git repository as a submodule of the Git repository
of your application, or copy the Perl module file
<https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wakaba/perl-json-ps/master/lib/JSON/PS.pm>.

Tests are run at Travis CI:
<https://travis-ci.org/wakaba/perl-json-ps>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2014-2017 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
